Before we dive into the truth about
cancer being metabolic and not genetic,
Dr. Seaff Freed, what are the lifestyle
behaviors that contribute to cancer
growth? Meaning, do these things if you
want to get cancer?
>> Yeah, right. I mean, you that it sounds
like a uh it sounds like a crazy crazy
question. Uh why why would anyone want
to do anything that would uh enhance
their chances to have a group of cells
in some organ of their body growing out
of control uh with a potential to kill
them, right? This is the so um and and
and these are the things that that you
would do uh if you wanted to do that.
And when you when you find out what you
need to do to get a lethal cancer,
uh you might want to try to avoid those
things,
>> right? Makes sense. So if you know what
you need to do to get cancer, then you
might want to consider avoiding those
things. And when you realize
>> that what you have to avoid will require
a massive change in diet and lifestyle,
uh then you say, "Well, I don't want to
do that. Therefore, that must mean you
would like to have cancer,
>> right? You see what I'm saying? Yeah.
>> All right. So, as I said, um what you
need to do, and it's never one thing.
It's probably the whole package. You got
to have the whole package here. As I
said, don't exercise. Um avoid it. Avoid
any kind of uh exercise. Um the couch
potato mentality becomes the dominant
way of looking at your life. As I said,
never take stairs. Always take the
elevator. Um, never leave the car in a
fast food place. God forbid you leave
the car and walk in and pick something
up. You must sit in the car so they can
hand it through you the window. Um,
never exercise, never run, never walk,
never lift weights. Um, you know what
what you call just shuffle around if you
have to get somewhere. Um, the most
minimal level of exercise uh is will put
you at risk for cancer. Um, the worst
kind of foods. You have to eat large
amounts of highly processed foods. Um,
things that can live in a package like
these uh uh Hostess Twinkies that I have
here. Um, I use them in my class uh as
props. I bought these in 2010.
>> Wow.
>> When the when they said Hostess was
going out of business.
>> Wow. Look what they look like.
>> Yeah, they look brand new. They they
they have they're a little stale. Uh,
but a mouse broke in and ate one um not
long ago. And and if you look at the
box, they have more a list of
ingredients. You need a a degree of some
sort to figure out the chemicals that
are in this delicious uh eat a lot. Eat
a lot of these. Got to eat these like
three or four times a day.
>> Uh or similar kinds of things um that
are that can remain in the package for
decades. Um, as I said, avoid any avoid
any fresh foods. Uh, never eat anything
that's organically grown. Uh, whether
it's a vegetable, organic, uh,
grass-fed, freerange chickens,
grass-fed, avoid that. Uh, always always
eat the most highly processed foods and
eat a lot of it, too. Don't just nibble
on it. You know, engorgorge yourself
with this kind of thing. while you're
not exercising, you have to eat massive
amounts of highly processed uh foods
that have incredibly long shelf lives.
Um, make sure you have a lot of
emotional stress in your life. Always be
freaked out about everything. Uh,
everything that you hear gets you angry
and upset, no matter what it is, you got
to have a lot of emotional stress, a lot
of anger um while you're eating the
highly processed foods and not
exercising, you know. And and if you can
smoke, if if you can, you know, chew
tobacco or smoke it, uh really good,
really good, that'll while while you're
chowing down on a Twinkie, you know, uh
um these are the kinds of things. Make
sure you don't sleep well at night. God
forbid you get a good night's sleep. No,
no, no. You must be awoken several times
with anger and bitterness and or
emotional stress. Um this is this is
helpful to get to get cancer. And make
sure you don't enjoy life. Make sure you
have no happiness in your life. Um, so
you put all these things together and
there's a real good chance that you can
get cancer.
>> So when you hear what I said to get
cancer, um, you would do the opposite to
try to avoid cancer. But when you
realize that many of the things that
I've mentioned, people are already
doing. They're not exercising. They're
freaked out. Uh they're under stress.
They're not getting good sleep. And then
they wake up and they go, "We we have a
an obesity epidemic. Uh uh which is
linked to type 2 diabetes." And uh
obesity and systemic inflammation and
diabetes puts you at risk for cancer. So
in order if you're eating a lot a lot of
highly processed foods and not
exercising, you can put the risk of
getting diabetes and obesity. So, uh,
you put it all together and cancer is
exploding in our societies predominantly
for the reasons that I that I I just
articulated. And if people really were
fearful of what I just said and said,
"Whoa, I got to do something different."
Uh, or did they not know this? Uh, did
they is this the first time they ever
heard what I just said? A lot of them
know this. People still smoke. Well, I'm
not the one that's going to get the lung
cancer. No, but you could get emphyma
and a heart attack that'll kill you
also. Um, but I but I think it's our
diet and lifestyle that put us at risk
um for cancer predominantly diet and
lifestyle. And this is exploding over
the last 50 years because we're getting
more and more international foods that
are uh what we call global the global
food food distribution across the
planet. Um more and more highly
processed foods are appearing on
shelves. Everything got to have a lot of
carbs too. Make sure the foods, if you
want cancer, you got to have a lot of
carbohydrate in that food. A lot of
chemicals, too. God forbid anything is
natural. Um, so you eat a lot of that
stuff. Don't exercise, smoke a lot,
horrible night's sleep. And, uh, we'll
be very surprised if you don't get
cancer. But every now and then, you get
people who absolutely abuse themselves
for decades. They smoke cigarettes, they
don't exercise, they eat the worst
foods, and they're always like happy,
you know, they're not so unhappy
sometimes. So, I think you have to put
all those together in a package.
>> If you want to learn how to implement
the ketogenic diet and the press pulse
protocol into your cancer management,
just visit school.com/keto
for cancer, the new community by our
research analyst Johnny Rocker. Within
this new community platform, you can
connect with other patients and learn
from their experiences.
You can also just search through the
posts other members have already made.
You will have access to our classroom
section as well, which provides
practical advice and tools for the best
results. These sections cover all parts
of the press pulse protocol that you
should implement. Starting with the
general scientific concepts by Dr.
Thomas Ciphford, we will show you how to
start the ketogenic diet, including
which foods to choose and which to
avoid. Additionally, we prepared a list
of doctors specialized in metabolic
therapy as well as details about
glutamine inhibition and hyperbaric
oxygen protocols. So, take a look around
at school.com/keto
forcancer
>> and and uh what was killing most folks
at that time and we know this from from
looking at Aboriginal folks that are on
the planet today uh was was mostly
injuries and infections. So, in our
paleolithic ancestors would mostly die
from injuries and infections. uh they
didn't have orthopedic surgeons to fix
hips and broken bones and this kind of
thing. We didn't have antibiotics. So,
you had to rely on the power of your own
immune system uh and your ability to
continue to to hunt and walk with a with
a with a broken limb or a broken hip.
And it couldn't have been easy. Um and
eventually your body just gets worn down
from the stress of the living living.
But we've we've uh evolved we've
eliminated a lot of these kinds of
health issues. We have tremendous
ability to enhance our immune system
with antibiotics to prevent infections.
And how many people are are walking? I I
had a hip replacement. It's
unbelievable. Uh you feel good. You can
walk. Your exercise goes way up. You're
not pained every time you have to do
something.
>> So So clearly those are major advances
in our medical technology. But at the
same time we have made we have allowed
chronic diseases to replace uh uh these
acute uh problems of infections and
injuries and now we die slowly uh from
uh dementia, cardiovascular disease,
cancer, type 2 diabetes. I mean all of
these just wear your body down. But
getting back to your question about how
how hard it is to get cancer, there's an
interesting study that was published
maybe 30 years ago on monkeys, the macac
monkey, um where they took chem chemical
tar um with a a carcinogenic tar and and
rubbed it on the the skin of the monkey
uh for 10 year because they wanted to
develop tumors in monkeys because
monkeys are genetically more similar to
because they wanted to develop tumors in
monkeys And uh they took these macac
monkeys and they rubbed tar on their on
their arms and no tumor. And then
finally they
started to inject the chemical
carcinogens into the monkeys. So um and
for 10 years they had like in this 60 or
70 monkey group they had like one monkey
that had some minor lymphoma. Um so they
cancelled the project uh saying monkeys
are not a good model for cancer.
Now what they what they failed to do in
that experiment was to feed the monkeys
Twinkies every day
>> and and
put them and have a lion or a tiger walk
around the cage three times a day. Put
the fear of God into them.
>> Uh and do all the kinds of things that
would have give them emotional stress,
nutrition stress. Don't let them sleep
well at night. you know, uh, do all the
things that I just said. Um, they didn't
do that. So, you're you're you're 100%
correct how hard it is for us to get
cancer. You really have to abuse your
body, something fierce for decades. And
and people think, um, oh, you know, I'm
get a lot of exercise and I still got
cancer. Yeah, but what about all the
other things that you're subjected to?
Um, and uh, we're saying it's not one
thing. It's like the package. Yeah.
>> The whole package puts you at at risk.
But even doing uh a lot of exercise will
reduce the risk. All of these things you
don't smoke, you reduce risk. Uh you
enjoy life, you reduce risk. You have
stress management, you you reduce risk.
So So again, uh you you look at this,
but there's a there is a linkage now
between obesity and cancer. Uh the more
obese, the more likely you're going to
be a cancer, but that's because your
body is inflamed. Inflammation damages
mitochondria. As I said, it's very
difficult to get cancer when your
mitochondria and your body remain
healthy. They are they are the the the
controllers of our destiny. The health
of the mitochondria in our body
determine how long you will live and the
level of of quality of life that you
will have as the result of this organel
that exists in almost all cells except
ariththraittes. Um, so, so yeah, I if
you want to abuse your body, I don't
know, seed oils, take anything you want
to jam it, chug on it, you know, it's
just, uh, with all the other things. Uh,
but most people don't want to do that,
right? But yet they do it, but they
don't want to do it. So, uh, and I'm not
the one to tell people what to do or
what not to do, uh, in anything. I mean,
let them do it. I'm just saying what
what causes the risk factors that will
put will cause disregulated cell growth
in a population of cells in a particular
organ of your body.
>> Yeah. You're giving us the information
and we decide what we want to do with
it. You know, it is interesting how you
said earlier that people know that
smoking cigarettes for example or
chewing tobacco is not healthy for them,
but they think that's not going to be
me. I'm not going to be the one to get
cancer. Why do you think
>> that is? You know, I have a thought
behind this that people do they're
sedentary. They eat the processed foods,
they eat the junk food, they smoke, they
have bad lifestyle behaviors. I think
that they when they when you lack a
purpose and lack goals in your life,
there's a void that you fill. This was
my life for 20 years. There's a void you
fill with these dopamine producing
activities and you're not thinking about
the long term. You're thinking about how
I could fill this void and and get some
dopamine hits right now. Do you think a
part of that that's going on people just
lack goals? they lack community and
they're just filling this void with
these habits.
>> I don't know. I I can't I can't address
that. Don't forget our our research is
on the on the biochemical mechanisms by
which by which disregulated cell growth
happens uh at the biochemical level
whether human behavior will change. I
mean you can go on for hours and look at
every kind of a and not have a a clear
uh controlled experiment to test any one
of these kinds of things. But but
there's enough circumstantial evidence
in the scientific li literature to uh
know what what puts you at risk and
doesn't that that what I what I'm
confronted with since prevention since
many many folks not all of course don't
really care about prevention like you
said you know after I get the problem
what what can you do for me at that
point yes I know I should have been a
better person I shouldn't have avoided
these things but I didn't and I got this
so that's where the that's where our
research comes in um okay uh you have
this disregulated cell growth now how do
we manage it without toxicity? How can
we control uh or restrict the ability of
that group of cells uh to not get out of
control and kill you? Um our research
doesn't doesn't say we cancer at all.
What we say is we can manage it and and
if you if it never returns for for
decades and you die from something other
than cancer, then only then can you say
you were um but a lot of people don't
know that. Well, I'm sorry. Um that
cannot be guaranteed by the medical
establishment either,
>> right?
>> Um you know, when they say, "Oh, yeah,
you know, you're five years survival,
five and a half years that you get
another kind of tumor or something."
What what's going on with that? So, um,
yeah, I I think, you know, let's put it
this way. How long can I live on the
planet with a higher quality of life
than I had before and, uh, even though I
know I have this and it's up to you once
you know what to do and how to do it,
you can reduce the risk. Everything is
risk management. So, how do I reduce
risks and even even if you have the C,
oh, every time I go, it never goes away.
It's still there and it's just, you
know, they try to cut it out. It came
back, but it never really still kind of
indolent. Well, good. Keep it indolent.
That's what you want.
>> Yeah.
>> I want I want to get into your research
and some of Otto Warberg's research on
cancer as a metabolic disease versus a
genetic um issue. I think still, and you
could let me know if you disagree, but
if I went out into the streets of Miami
here and I walked around South Beach and
I surveyed like went up to 100 people
and asked them, "Hey, cancer, let me ask
you a question about cancer. Do you
believe cancer is a genetic disease? Do
you believe that either you have bad
luck, good luck, but it's all due to
genetics? I would guess that maybe 90
out of a hundred people would say,
"Yeah, it's genetics, bad luck, nothing
you can do about it." Would you say
that's a fair assessment?
>> Oh, absolutely. And one of the one of
the young girls from high school, um,
Grace, she did a video just that she
>> That's right.
>> Yeah. Right. She and she did ask the
same questions in the street. I don't
know if it was my I know it was Texas, I
think, somewhere down there. And just
about everybody thought it was genetic.
And if you go to any go down to the big
cancer hospitals, um, Moffett in in in
Florida, you can go to M MD Anderson,
you can go to Sloan Ketaring, you go to
Dana Farber down here, the Fred Hutch,
no matter where you go and you walk into
the oncology, oh yeah, cancer is
definitely genetic. Uh, they say it on
the national NCI website, cancer is 100
different diseases, all genetically.
This is such nonsense.
>> Uh, they have no clue, do they? I don't
know if they read the scientific
literature or understand or just deny
it. Uh I mean let's look at look at this
is what we have found that and we have
published and it's already published in
the scientific literature by many many
scientists. There are cancers that have
no mutations. All right. How do you
explain that? Well, first of all, um the
somatic mutation theory of cancer says
that all cancers come from genetic
mutations acquired in your life in the
nucleus of of of the the cell and those
mutations lead to cause disregulated
cell growth which is cancer. Cancer is
cell division, out of control,
disregulated cell growth caused by
mutations in certain genes of the
nucleus of the cell. That's the sematic
mutation theory of cancer. Disregulated
cell growth caused by nuclear gene
mutations acquired in your lifetime in
your in your life. This is different
from germline germline inherited
mutations. So somatic mutations are
acquired. Okay, great. So uh Michael
Stratton and his group from England uh
they did a massively comprehensive
analysis on breast cancer and they found
about 30% of breast tumors had no
mutations whereas other other uh breast
tumors some massive thousands and
thousands of mutations in some breast
tumors but in some of them there were no
mutations. So in the paper it says
cancer is a genetic disease caused by
mutations and then they show we have
some cancers that have no mutations. How
do you think the authors of that paper
address that? They ignore it. It's not
part how could you state one thing and
have evidence not supporting it. And
this has been found in certain
appendimolas of children. They can't
find mutations in certain kinds of
cancers. It doesn't happen often. Let me
I want to be clear about that. There
aren't there are not many cancers where
there are no mutations. But the fact
that you could find one or a few says
there's got to be something else going
on here. That's number one.
>> Then we found over as the genome we
spent billions of dollars on the
so-called cancer genome atlas supported
by the national cancer institutes,
pharmaceutical industries, the all of
the players that that want to want to
get involved with this. So the idea was
we're going to sequence e every mutation
found in every kind of a cancer and
we're going to then make targeted drug
therapies to target these mutations.
Well, first of all, we started to find
tens of millions of mutations like
they're everywhere every so so we had to
parse the field had to parse they all
can't be bad because we can never target
100,000 mutations or more to help one
cancer patient. Every cell in the tumor
has a different pattern of mutations.
They're all different from each other.
One tumor in this person has different
mutations than the same tumor in another
person. And even within this person,
every cell in that tumor has different
kinds of mutations. This is this is what
we see.
>> So we then the field then said, well um
this is problem. This is a real problem.
But we should then define that there
only some kinds of mutations that are
really the bad ones leading to the
disregulated cell growth. These are
called driver mutations. Okay. So we
have driver mutations that are the bad
ones and we have passengers that kind of
just are mutated but they don't seem to
do anything. So we separate the p and we
have hills and valleys and all kinds of
different parts of mutations and all
this kind of stuff. But now with the new
with the new um uh findings uh we're now
with deep sequencing they said well what
let's let's look at normal tissues in
normal people that never get cancer. So,
we took the field scientists that are
published in top journals as we speak.
They're coming out all the time. We're
finding thousands of driver gene
mutations in tissues uh of normal
healthy guys that never get cancer. So,
how do you explain that? You just told
us that the passengers don't do anything
and the drivers are the ones that cause
disregulated cell growth. Now, we find
drivers and normal people never get
cancer. This is nuts. So uh um and we
have tumor suppressor genes and then we
have ankco genes and all of these kinds
of genes are found in normal people that
don't get cancer. So uh how do you how
do you now all of a sudden see that? And
then um and no no it's it's there. It's
there but I know it's it's a problem.
It's a problem but we we we have we
haven't we don't have an answer yet. We
don't have an answer yet. You ever think
the theory is wrong? That's the answer.
>> Spot on.
>> Spot on. you're looking the the theory
is wrong. Get over it. So, um, so then,
uh, I took out of the literature all the
nuclear mitochondrial transfer
experiments that which were the that's
the nail in the coffin for this whole
thing. When you take a nucleus out of a
tumor cell loaded with all the drivers
and and and monco genes and tumor
suppressor genes and you put it into a
new cytoplasm of a cell that doesn't
have cancer, now you take that cell and
put it into the rat, you don't get any
tumors. Um, on the other hand, if I take
the the nucleus, the normal healthy
nucleus out of a normal cell and put it
into the cytoplasm of a of a of a rat
tumor and put it under oh, boom, you got
a
>> So clearly it was not the nucleus drive
calling the shots. It's the mitochondria
and the cytoplasm. And how do we know
it's the mitochondria? Because the
Chinese did some beautiful experiments
where they took normal mitochondria and
put them into into gloma cells and shut
off the ankco genes and turned off all
the genetic uh power. Right? So why do
you why ankco genes are facilitators of
a fermentation metabolism to replace the
damaged mitochondria? So once you know
it's the mitochondria they're calling
the shots on this whole thing. Uh then
the NCI is wrong. The N the National
Cancer Institute is flat out wrong and
and they're and they're they they did in
uh they invited the pharmaceutical
companies into the labs because the
progress to the cure was going too slow.
So, they figured if we brought the
pharmaceuticals into the labs, uh, the
cure would come faster. How's that
working out for us? We have 1,700 people
a day dying from cancer in the United
States. It's 70 an hour, right? 70
people an hour. Over 6 11,000 people are
dying every year in from cancer.
>> So, in 1984, they brought the
pharmaceutical companies into the labs
and it says right on the NCI website,
National Cancer Institute website,
progress not work. We're bringing the
pharmaceutical companies. So, we're
spending a fortune on cancer drugs,
imunotherapies, all this crazy stuff
based on the sematic mutation theory.
Yes, there are folks out there that are
living and have survived, you know, you
know, every now and then the blind
squirrel finds the nut, you know, and
you get some people that are doing
really, really well. See, see, you're
going to do really well. But we got
1,700 people a day dying that aren't
doing so well. Um, and some of these
imunotherapies that are targeting genes,
okay, get a load of this. They they have
a tumor. Oh, it has mutations and our
immune system can't kill because there's
some there's so we want our immune
system to kill. So we we put these
imunotherapies on there.
>> But don't forget some normal cells have
those same problems. So those
imunotherapies can blow out your liver
and kidneys and that's called hyper
progressive disease.
>> Oh, but that's the that's the price we
have to pay to help a few people. That's
that's nuts.
>> You know the the whole thing here.
You're working on the wrong theory,
guys. And once you once you abandon the
somatic mutation theory and recognize
that it's a mitochondrial metabolic
disease, then you're going to see the
big drop in then you're going to see the
the the drop in death. That's when
you're going to see the drop in death.
>> That's just like the AIDS when we use
the AIDS cocktail, the the HIV cocktail
drop dead people drop way down because
they were on working on the right
mechanism of of controlling that. right
now. I mean, you hear advertised at
night on television Opivvo and Katruda,
a chance to live longer and also a
chance to die sooner. They don't talk
about, but they actually do. They don't
lie. They spend more time telling you
how the drug is going to kill you than
than how it's going to give you the
chance to live longer. They're not
hiding anything, but no. And they always
show smiling faces, you know, guys in a
canoe riding a bike or something like
they show you sitting on a toilet.
>> Yeah. You know,
>> your eyeballs, blood coming out of your
mouth. Like
>> I mean all this kind of stuff. Nobody
would buy it then, right? Nobody would
go.
>> They're explaining the side effects, but
they're like to your point, they're
showing somebody happy.
>> Yeah. Showing a happy guy. Happy guy.
And with Oh, this guy's going to have
massive diarrhea, fatigue, nausea,
vomiting. He's riding a bite smile,
right?
>> You don't show them running into the
John after rides the bite, you know? you
know, you know, but but the problem is
these poor folks, um, they go down to
the oncologists at the top medical
schools thinking they know what they're
talking about. And when you talk to them
about cancer as a metabolic dis Oh,
there's no evidence to support.
>> Yeah.
>> What did you read the science? No, I
don't have to read the scientific
literature. If it were right, I would
have heard about it. So, that's called
confirmation bias. Yeah. So, the field
the field just does what everybody else
does mindlessly and
>> and it has to be right because the NCI
says it's right. the drug companies say
it's right. Television advertisements
can't be wrong. So uh um so and then you
have this problem and everybody wakes up
and they say before it's you know I get
dozens and dozens of emails from all
these cancer patients where where
everything that they've given them carti
amunotherapies they've given them this
they've given them that and and now
they're still suffering from cancer and
it's out of control spreading through
their body and now their bodies are so
brutalized by poisonous chemicals and
radiation and surgical mutilations they
can't rally their body any longer and
they and and they die. So uh this is
tragedy as I said in many of these you
this is going to this will eventually be
recognized the single greatest tragedy
tragedy in the history of medicine using
medieval tools to make people uh healthy
poison and irdiating them and doing all
those crazy kind of stuff and and people
fear when they get diagnosed with cancer
they fear having their hair fall out
their gums bleeding sitting on the
toilet they they they have this
impending doom that I have to go through
this miserable torture only to end up
dead and And the problem is many do
survive. Like you said, the body was
brutalized and yet no matter what you
did to this guy, he's still alive. Um
but they pay us many, not all, many
people pay a significant price for their
survival. They have neurossychiatric
problems, hormonal problem, bone density
problems, all kinds of uh other problems
uh that came for the fact that you were
poisoned and irdiated and brutalized by
a system. You didn't get out of this
free. and your quality of life can be
impacted significantly as the result of
being a cancer survivor. Survivor of
what? My god, what they did to these
poor folks. But um yeah, well, metabolic
therapy is coming. You either join it or
you get out of the way because it's
coming and people want it. And once we
once we have Well, where's the evidence?
Well, the uh Maggie and Brad Jones are
are building a documentary with the
evidence. Uh we're publishing papers
with the evidence. uh more and more
people are surviving. Does it? No, it
doesn't. But it certainly gives a an an
opportunity for people to live longer
and they but they have to shoulder like
you said at the beginning you have to
shoulder a significant amount of that
burden. Now you're the one you're
responsible for your destiny. If you're
not adherent to the metabolic approach
then you don't have anybody to blame but
yourself. So uh um but again it requires
discipline. Uh but you're but you're in
charge. That's why we built the glucose
ketone index calculator to allow people
to know whether they're in nutritional
ketosis. And then when you're in that
nutritional ketosis based on your own
biology, your own blood, then you can
bring in the non-toxic drugs to work on
the glutamine problem.
>> So uh um so yeah, we have it all we have
it pretty well outlined. It just has to
be put into practice in the major
clinics and that's not happening anytime
soon because they think it's a genetic
disease. So that why even talk about
what I'm talking about?
>> Yeah. I want to talk more about the the
metabolic uh the mitochondria and this
what's happening here at the
mitochondrial level and then a little
bit more about the glucose and ketone
index that you talk about. Before we get
there, I want to take a quick break from
the video you're watching to share
something with you that has made a big
difference with my health and the
thousands and thousands of students that
I teach all across the world. Now, this
is a unique device that has been shown
to help with skin health, sore muscles,
wrinkles, psoriasis, eczema, scoliosis,
migraines, sleep issues, arthritis,
acne, scar tissue, wound healing,
relaxation, and also boosts testosterone
levels. It's red light therapy. Turn it
on, and as you can see, I just leave it
there on my desk as I work. 10, 20
minutes uh per day will suffice. then
head over to bondcharge.com/keocamp
and use the coupon code ketoamp to get
15% off your red light device. So
whether it's these Bond charge blue
light blocking glasses, their sauna
blanket, or any of their awesome
products, use that coupon code ketoamp
at checkout. We'll drop a link down
below. Go check them out. They are
awesome. And let's get back to today's
video. You know, one of the things I've
noticed over the last few years is when
I have somebody that's close to me that
has been diagnosed with cancer. I see
that they're going down that route of a
genetic thing, conventional treatments,
and I do my best to open up dialogue and
have conversations and maybe share some
of your research. Um, Dr. Nisha Winters
is a good friend of mine, some of her
research. Um, but
they're so the individual with the
cancer, they're living in fear because
they just got this diagnosis. Their
doctor is telling them that, you know,
doing ketosis and fasting other that
doesn't work. Like you said, this is all
theory. There's no research to back it
up. They don't know about the research.
And most of the time, the message that I
share with them, the the podcast, the
book, whatever it is, it just falls on
deaf ears. And I've lost a few people
that got went down the route of
conventional therapy and eventually lost
their life. H how do we overcome that?
How do we have better conversations with
people to get this information to them?
>> Well, that's the that's the gradual
transformation. Um it doesn't happen uh
overnight. Uh you your training in
medical schools, all of the physicians
are trained that cancer is a genetic
disease. Their first biochem
biochemistry classes say it's a genetic
disease. Wow.
>> And then those who go into oncology uh
learn how to how to wield the power of
poison and radiation and uh uh to to
bring to try to kill tumor without
killing the patient. Uh so it's not so
much how effective it is against the
tumor, it's how how you're not going to
try to kill your patient with doing
using a doses that's too high. Um, so
they're that they're trained on on that
and uh uh and the surgeons of course,
you know, show me something, I'll cut it
out, you know. Um, but uh you know,
they're just there. Oh, we have to cut
this guy's tumor out. Let's run him in.
You know what we do with metabolic
therapy, you have an opportunity to
shrink the hell out of that tumor. Uh,
and then the surgeon, we're not we're
not against, in fact, we're not against
any part of standard of care.
um we just want to use those tools in
the correct way. Um the problem with the
guys in the medical schools and the
alcon, they just don't know. Uh number
one, they have they have no clue about
the biology of what they're doing. Not
not because they're they're they're um
dumb or stupid. They just they just
they're very smart people. They just
have not been given the training to
understand what the nature of the
problem is. So it's not you know that
and and they make a good lifestyle at
doing what they do. So is there any
motivation to to to want to change what
you do? Um
>> right.
>> Uh but you know uh yeah so the training
is not there. Uh they don't recognize
that cancer is a metabolic disease and
that has to change once you start
changing once you understand the science
that's driving the disregulated cell
growth. Why the tumors are growing out
of control in the first place and what
how where they getting their energy and
fuel to do this stuff then then you then
you know what to target them how to
target. But they don't get any of that.
That's not part of the training right
now. So that's a gap. And then you when
the patients go into the clinics and
say, you know, I heard sugar really dry.
No, no, no. It has nothing to do with
that. Um did well what what you know,
you ask the oncologist. Well, you
certainly know about out of work. No, I
never heard of them.
>> Wow.
>> So I mean, how how are you how are you
supposed to treat a person correctly
when you have no uh training or
knowledge of the very issues that are
central to the success of your
treatment?
>> Wow.
Now um uh that's not to say we know that
if we do an upfront if there's a
watchful waiting period without some
critical situation. We we know that
surgery can cure cancer. It has happened
many many many times. So but the problem
is you want to make sure that this when
the surgeon does uh debulk or take out
the tumor that he's going to get it all
so it doesn't recur. If you go into a
tumor too aggressively at the beginning,
>> uh you can spread that tumor around.
This is like um biopsies can do this as
well. Doesn't happen a lot, but it
happens enough to kill people.
>> Um there's a lot of evidence for this in
the science, but no, I even sent out
papers. Oh, no, this never happens. And
I sent him 20 papers. Oh, I wasn't aware
of this. Well, you don't read the
scientific literature like I um and
you're not talking about it. And yet
here's all these papers saying this can
happen. Oh, wow. I didn't know that.
Just like the Johnson and Johnson
morilation procedure, they used a
moratorum morselation morselation to
remove uterine polyps. It's like kind of
a grindup system. You know, they were
killing people spreading the cancer
around the body. Finally, they had to
stop using that. I mean, it was
perfectly understandable because you can
because the the metastatic cancer is a
mac it's part of our immune system.
Another thing that the the the field is
clueless about yet there's we every
major human cancer is expresses
characteristics of macrofages which is a
very powerful immune system in our body.
The macrofagages have fused with certain
stem cells cancer stem cells and now
become rogue macrofagages and they
spread all around your body driven
heavily by glucose and glutamine. So we
we know how to kill cancer cells without
toxicity just by knowing what they what
the biology of their dependency on fuel
is. Uh that's not even discussed when
you go to an oncologist. What do I have
to eat to to reduce my probability of
having the no nothing? Take the infaml.
Take the sugar. What are you crazy? This
is nuts. You know, we published the
first paper using linear regression
analysis in mice showing that the higher
the blood sugar in the mouse, the faster
the the brain tumor would grow or even a
flank tumor. The lower the sugar, the
slower it would go. And we did linear
regression showing it was the glucose
that was the driver, the driver using
glucose as the independent variable and
tumor growth as the dependent variable.
We showed this. Now then after that
numerous studies came out of the
clinical human literature showing the
same thing
>> in breast cancer, colon cancer, brain
cancer. The higher the blood sugar that
the the the the lower the the the less
the patient would survive had the the
lowest survival rate over and over and
over again and yet you go to oncology
claims nothing sugar has nothing to do
with it. What do you people don't read
the scientific literature? So it's
frustrating to me because I read all
this stuff and they're peer-reviewed
good good articles. We've tested it in
our own. We've double tested these
things. Found that. Yes, we confirm
everything they're doing. They confirm
our results. We confirm their results.
And yet it's like it's not even
considered in the in the clinics. So, um
it's slowly coming around. I think the
oncology community is slowly realizing
it sure ain't good.
>> Yeah.
>> So, u keep your blood sugar as low as
you possibly can. And they can't burn
ketone bodies or fatty acids. People
say, "Oh, yes, they can." No, they
can't. We tested it all here and the
literature is full of papers showing
they can't do that.
>> So yo, so just to clarify, you're saying
there's there's not there's not a cancer
that could feed off of fatty acids and
ketones. Is that what you just said?
>> Yeah, we can't find one.
>> No. No. Well, all the major Let's put it
this way. The major cancers that are
killing 90 98% of people cannot use
fatty acids and ketone B. Now, I'm not
saying there's a cancer out there, but
if it were, it would have normal
mitochondrial function. Therefore, it
would not be a cancer. So because our
normal cells, brain, heart, liver, all
these, not liver can burn fatty acids,
not ketones. Yeah. But all other all
other cells can burn ketones and fatty
acid.
>> Isn't it interesting? The liver the only
organ that produces ketones doesn't use
the ketones.
>> It it produces large amounts of ketones
but burns fatty acids.
>> So because the the Scott enzyme is is
different in the liver. So so um yeah.
Yeah. So you know that and people oh no,
they can burn fatty. Well, you know what
we found? We found that if you take a
lot of fatty acids in uh they say, "Oh,
look at it's making the cancer grow
fast." What the fatty acids do is they
uncouple the mitochondria forcing to use
glucose and glutamate at higher. So it
looks like it's not the fat fatty acids
are fueling the f the ferment
fermentable fuels but are not using the
directly using fatty acids.
>> In fact, they accumulate as lipid
droplets in the cytoplasm. Just
published a big paper on this just came
out 2024. All major cancers are have a
have lipid droplets in the cytoplasm uh
because they can't be used. So they
store them in the cytoplasm
>> and what happens is if they try to use
them they form reactive oxygen species
and die. So it's actually a protective
mechanism to store the fatty acids
because if god forbid if they start
burning them cancer cells will blow up.
So they store them in the cytoplasm. And
all major cancers we've looked at all of
them they all have mitochondrial
abnormalities and store lipid droplets
in the cytoplasm. Tells us they're
mitochondria defective. What are they
using to stay alive? Why are they
growing so fast? Glucose and glutamine.
the amino acid glutamine. You take those
two away and they clump. They they
collapse. And guess what? Not a single
clinic anywhere in the world is is
simultaneously targeting the two
metabolic fuels needed and transitioning
the body over to ketones. Nobody. Can
you We got 1,700 people a day dying and
not a single clinic anywhere on the
planet is doing what I just mentioned.
>> It's what?
>> You know why they don't believe it? Why
do they not believe it? Because cancer
is a genetic disease. Haven't you got
it?
>> It's the paradigm. It's it's the current
paradigm. It's a strong paradigm and you
work.
>> Yeah. So you continually pump out kinase
inhibitors, elk gene mutation, all that
kind of stuff. It's largely irrelevant.
>> They're d they're being driven by a
fermentation metabolism. Mutations have
little if anything to do with this whole
process. They're downstream
epiphenomenon of the damage from
reactive oxygen species causing all this
stuff. And you're focusing on downstream
stuff. And we got 1,700 people a day
dying from Wow. Well, there's a lot of
money to be made on downstream stuff,
isn't there? Well, they should then
patients should be told that.
>> Yes.
>> Thank you. We're so appreciative of of
your sickness because it's driving
driving driving our our industry here.
Um, but they don't say that. If you go
into Dana Farber or these cancer
clinics, it's unbelievably beautiful.
It's you could eat off the floors.
Everything is so clean. The bathrooms,
every I mean, you walk in, everybody's
smiling and everybody and and the next
room they're poisoned radio.
>> Exactly.
>> Doesn't make any sense, right? Well, you
know, I always see like the somebody
going through chemotherapy, the food
that's given to them in the hospital is
the same processed food that we spoke
about. Like, doesn't make any sense.
>> I know. It's nuts, isn't it? I mean,
when you when people come to realize
what we've been doing, this is in the
future, right? We're 2024. Okay, let's
let's do 2124. This is a hundred years
from now.
>> You know, you and I will be dead. Uh
long gone. And they're going to look
back and say, "Who are those crazy folks
that did this to our members of our
species? How could our brains be so
stupid? Oh my god."
>> But this is what we're doing.
>> Yeah.
>> And this is our day. This is today.
>> Ah, that is so interesting. Okay. So,
the mitochondria, that's important. I
I'd love for you to share, you know,
maybe like a protocol, a 30-day
protocol, just your favorite ways to
enhance mitochondrial function. I'm not
saying to prevent cancer, to starve
cancer, but to support the mitochondria.
What are your favorite methods to do
that?
>> Well, I mean, what what we did as we
evolved, we were always in a in a state
of nutritional ketosis.
>> Yeah.
>> Mainly mainly because we did not have uh
doughnut shops and delicates on every
corner
>> or food in general.
>> Food in general. And what we did eat, we
ate everything. That's why humans are
omnivores.
uh they humans will eat and we know
anything that swims, crawls, walks or
flies on this planet or grows uh will
eat it. Um and uh that's how we evolved.
So we were always in a state of
nutritional ketosis and my my good late
friend Dr. Richard Vch from the NIH
metabolism biochemistry branch and
George Cahill, the late George Cahill
who ran the Joselyn Diabetes Center. We
would sit the three of us for hours and
hours and hours and talk about
metabolism and ketones and all this and
and and Vich was Hans Krebs's last
graduate student of the of the Kreb
cycle.
>> Amazing.
>> So Vich was a brilliant guy. Absolutely
brilliant. And Cahill, man, this guy
knew so much about human physiology.
These are the giants of the field. And
we'd sit for hours and talk about this.
And burning ketones makes your
mitochondria super healthy. You actually
get more when you bre every breath we
breathe we we generate energy but
there's a delta G prime ATP hydraysis
how efficiently uh we produce ATP and
hydrayze it and when you're burning
ketones you actually is a super fuel you
can get more energy from molecule of air
breathed from burning ketones than you
can with either glucose or fatty acids
so it's a really bioenergetic
energy efficient fuel bioenergetic
enhances is the health and vitality of
your mitochondria producing fewer
reactive oxygen species which is related
to the second law of thermodynamics
which is entropy disorder. We all die
because of entropy. The second law of
thermodynam dynamics basically we run
out of energy. We have disorder. Our
bodies can no longer produce sufficient
amounts of energy and we die. Well, when
you're burning ketones, you simply delay
that process. You stay healthier for a
longer period of time. Not to say that
you're going to live forever. That's not
what we're talking about. But we're
extending the possibility of how long we
could live if we're in ketosis. Now, our
ancestors were always in ketosis, but
they had a short lifespan. I told you,
if they live 45, 50 years, an old guy
back then, but that's because they were
dying from infections and injuries. They
weren't they weren't dying from
dementia, type two diabetes, and cancer.
>> True.
>> They weren't dying from the things that
are killing us today. And the and I tell
you the guys the obese people are are
the descendants of our ancestors who
were able to live on minuscule amounts
of food. They they store energy to
survive under the most extreme
conditions. And now when food is like
available in everywhere those same
traits that allowed us to survive
horrific conditions of environmental
forcing now put us at risk for cancer,
dementia, all these kinds of things.
It's the environment. It's our
environment and us not knowing how to
deal with this new our our technology
has evolved so much faster than our
biology. We are still paleolithic man in
a modern society and we're paying the
price for this. And don't forget these
poor cave guys, these Paleolithic guys.
I mean, do you think they would be
excited if someone were to make a jelly
donut and throw it into the cave? They'd
kill themselves for this thing. I mean,
>> of course. Well, no, I'm going to stick
with the raw squirrel. Thank you.
Are you kidding me? You gave him a nice
hot pizza and and oh, you know, you want
to chew on this the rump of this buffalo
or you can have a nice pizza.
Of course, we evolved to want that. And
now we have so much of it, it's killing
us,
>> right? Yeah. We have essentially a keto
deficiency nowadays.
>> Yes. Yeah. Because we're not exercising
and we're eating highly processed
carbohydrates and we're putting
ourselves in stress. Stress elevates
gluccocorticoids which raise blood
sugar. Yes.
>> Okay. Uh so you have to manage all of
this if you really want to get into a
healthy zone. And it's hard in our in
our lifestyle today. I mean it's amazing
when you watch television now the young
people are all into the computers or
this whatever they look at but you look
at television at night the old people
right comes on with all the drugs for
for obesity cancer and all this kind of
stuff. And then the football games come
on. It's all the pizzas and Coca-Cola
and all the stuff you want. That's going
to kill you, right? So you you watch the
>> constant brainwash.
>> You got to love the advertising. They
know who's out there, right?
>> 7 75% of TV commercials, at least in
2020, 75% of TV commercials in the
United States were funded by big pharma.
75%. It's hot. It's probably higher now,
>> but that's so that's okay. They they're
interested in making a buck just like
everybody else is. Um, but it but it is
kind of, you know, I I tell you when
when you do water only fasting, you
know, if you're sitting there reading a
book and a and a commercial comes on for
pizza or Coca-Cola or a donut or a
burger or one of these things and you're
full and you're sitting there reading
the book, you don't sometimes look up to
even watch it. But I tell you, when you
haven't eaten anything for three days
and that commercial comes on, you are
focused on that TV like you can't
believe. You start to tremble while you
watch the commercial.
That goes to show you the power of
what's going on.
>> That That is a good point. That is true.
So, you mentioned nutritional ketosis.
That would be one of the steps here.
It's it's more efficient than fatty
acids and glucose for the mitochondria.
>> Well, the Yeah, but you the the the the
um fatty acids are mobilized out of the
atapost cells. They go into the
bloodstream. They go to the liver and
they're chopped up to water soluble
ketone bodies and they can subserve your
brain and and organs and you get
healthier. You get more efficient uh
that way. Is it easy? No, it's not easy.
Give me a break. Wait. Oh, yes. I want
to run out and do it. Yeah, let's see
how long you can do it. You know, so so
uh what we do for the cancer patients,
not me. I'm not a doctor. I can't a
physician. I can't tell them what to do
or what not to do. But we we transition
them away from carbohydrates for about
10 or 14 days depending. And we use the
glucose ketone index calculator that
that we developed here at Boston
College. I I made it for the glyobblasto
patients, but then other cancer patients
are using it. And now uh even guy young
guys that want to be healthy uh they
want to be in the paleolithic zone they
want to be like paleolithic
>> man
>> they can use it to say in that healthy
zone
>> and they can compare their GKI and say
you know we said 2.0 zero or below
um for cancer management because most
people are in 50 or 60s. So, you know,
and you can test it on yourself, which
is interesting because we've done it
here in the lab a couple of times. You
know, people don't eat for three or four
days to get a beautiful GKI and then
they eat certain foods and you can see
what they drink a Coca-Cola, man. It's
like, you know, those things where you
where you go to the the the the carnival
and you hit the hit the thing and the
the thing goes up and rings the bell. I
mean,
>> blood sugar. Oh man, that you knocked
the bell right off the top of the stand.
>> Yeah.
>> And or if you drink if you eat um um a
fat laden kind of food like an avocado
or or something like this, you get very
little change. It's almost even dark red
wine uh doesn't bump it up too much. Um
but anything that would have significant
carbs immediately shoots up your the
ketones go down and the glucose goes up.
So paleolithic station is where glucose
and ketones are a relative unity in the
blood. The ketone and the glucose are
now unity. Um whereas mostly it's high
glucose, very low ketones. But but tumor
cells thrive on the glucose and they
can't burn the ketones. So you're
putting them at a competitive risk. The
rest of your cells in the body all of a
sudden upregulate transporters to get as
much glucose out. Therefore, the poor
tumor cell is getting starved indirectly
because you're normal cells. The brain
will take what little glucose is being
produced by the liver. Uh the brain gets
first dibs. Brain gets first dibs.
Muscle gets
>> the greediest organ is that brain, huh?
>> Yeah. Yes. And and not only that, and
muscles, muscle does not share glucose.
>> And that's evolutionarily conserved
because you need to run away from the
bear that's chasing you. But muscles
say, "Oh, let's have the liver. Let's
give all the share." The bear comes and
you're you're dead meat, right?
Oh, I g I gave all my energy away to my
kidneys must have kidneys fine, but I I
have no m. So the once the glycogen
builds up in your muscles, that's for
the muscles to get contract. So if you
continue to exercise, you're the tumor
is the last one on the totem uh uh to
get the to get the available glucose and
it needs it to stay alive and it starts
dying. Uh so you can completely
marginalize these tumors and then you
come in with the gl glutamine targeting
which is the other fuel that they use
and and you can you can shut these guys
down while the body is in nutritional
ketosis fatty acids and ketones that the
tumor cells can't use and the normal
cells are gobbling all that up
>> magic
>> and taking what little glucose they can
get this poor tumor that's absolutely
dependent on it is getting hammered. You
got to feel bad for the tumor under
metabolic condition.
>> Yeah. Yeah. I don't know if you feel bad
for that but yeah. Uh well some you know
there's guys out there who actually
would feel bad for the tomb.
>> Really?
>> Oh I mean you look at the way people
look at things you know sometimes they
just look at things in a very different
way than everybody else.
>> Interesting. I never even thought about
that before. What what role is autophagy
playing here with ketosis and fasting?
>> Then what what role is
>> autophagy playing here?
>> Yeah. Well, autophagy during water only
fasting autophagy is an internal
surveillance uh to improve the energetic
efficiency inside cells. So mitochondria
are usually what is parts of the
mitochondrial spaghetti network that we
have in the cell. Bits and pieces of
mitochondria will break off. uh they
will uh enter into what we call endoomes
and then the endoomes go into the lo and
the bits and pieces are chopped up and
redistributed within the cell. So what
remains then is a highly energyefficient
mitochondrial network. So autophagy
happens when people do water only
fasting and things like this. But we
also in my book I have also written uh
about
autolytic cannibalism which is like an
out it's out uh external to internal
autophagy. Autophagy is internal to the
cell. Uh autoolytic cannibalism is where
the body is then placed under tremendous
uh energy restriction. uh as I said
there's a there's a a a whole body
surveillance not only internal auto
autophagy in inside the cell internal
surveillance but now every cell in our
body must justify its existence and must
be at the maximal energy efficiency
otherwise it's going to be eliminated we
eliminate the weak we keep the strong
the tumor is there gobbling up energy
resources wasting so the body will
attack the tumor from the outside. It's
called autoolytic cannibalism because
there's a nice lump of food that's those
cells are not carrying their weight.
They're inefficient. They're fermenting
rather than respiring. They're
inefficient. So, our immune system will
go in and dissolve and kill the tumor
cells and redistribute the fuel to the
rest of our body. It's called autoolytic
cannibalism. It's a it's autophagy
outside the cell.
>> So cool. It's so it's unbelievable.
>> Yeah. It's amazing. And all you have to
do is just fast pretty much and all that
will happen for you.
>> Yeah. But yeah. Yeah. That's a hell of a
lot easier said than done. Well,
>> I mean, I've done um five days before
several times. I do five day water fast.
What's your longest fast that you've
done?
>> Oh, me personally, I've I've done three
days.
>> Three days. Yeah. Well, I mean, it's for
cancer patient.
>> It was long enough. You know, uh my
friends were building uh ketogenic
muffins, right? And we have lab meeting
and they have these they bring oh, they
want us to try from some company, you
know, somebody that oh, I'm making some
ketogenic food. So, at the lab meeting,
we'll eat the muffin, right? It's you
take It tastes like cardboard. It's all
crumbly and everything. It's horrible.
You know, you say, "Jesus, I that's it.
That's it. No more of this keto muffin."
But I tell you, um, when I had that
three-day fast, uh, and I had the chance
to eat on the third day that I had this
ketogenic muffin. I'm telling you, it
was the best damn muffin I ever ate in
my life. And I was I was trembling while
I ate this. I was getting crumbs all
over the place. I couldn't get it into
my mouth fast enough. You were you were
hungry.
>> Oh, I'm telling you, all of a sudden
that muffin that tasted terrible became
the best thing you ever ate. So,
when you're hungry, man, I'll tell you,
there ain't That's another thing, too.
People have all these ailments. Oh, this
hurts. That hurts. And don't eat for
like several day. You don't think about
anything that hurts anymore. Next day,
all you're thinking about is your next
big
>> That's a good point. Yeah, that's a good
point.
>> All of a sudden, you become focused on
the really important issue. Where's my
next big meal?
>> Where's my Yeah, it's funny. When I when
I first did my first uh fiveday water
fast, I think it was 2018, I did it with
Dr. Pompa and a group of the doctors
that we we work with. We were just doing
it as a team and I I day two was
probably the most difficult one with the
hunger. I I noticed that I had a a lot
of hunger, but once I reached day three
and I was tracking my glucose and
ketones and I achieved um I I achieved
the sweet spot of the GKI on day three.
I got there, but I stayed there for a
couple days showing good metabolic
flexibility. But one of the things I
noticed was that I was very introverted
during the fast. My my girlfriend, my
fiance, now girlfriend at the time was
asking me, "Why are you so quiet? Why
aren't you talking to me?" And I was
just like in my in my thoughts. I was it
was really creative. My sleep wasn't
that great, too. But it was it was a
really interesting experience for me.
>> No. Well, it usually wipes the smile
right off your face, you know, because
food brings so much pleasure, right?
>> Yeah. Oh, hey, man. I haven't had
anything for three days. I'm so happy.
You know, it
No, no. It's it's it's a tough thing to
do. And uh people, we're doing it
because uh we we want to try it. Our
Paleolithic ancestors weren't doing that
because they wanted to. They had to.
>> Yeah.
>> They didn't have the food. And just
think about how hard it would be to
track down a willy mammoth and kill it.
Uh or a big buffalo or or some other uh
herbivore. uh you had to kill you had to
track that thing a and and the energy
that would go into doing that because we
didn't have domesticated we weren't at
that point in our existence we weren't
domesticating we had no grains uh or or
source of food uh we were hunter
gatherers for for tens of thousands of
years so our physiology is in in that a
lot of energy used uh we would gorge
ourselves with the amount of food that
we could get at the time and there's a
very interesting paper that came out of
Israel uh Tel Aviv about about two or
three months ago where humans were
responsible for the extinction of large
numbers of of big animals on the planet.
It turns out that our ancestors
would kill the top strongest members of
the herd uh because the marrow and the
bone uh was best and the strongest. So
they would leave they wouldn't kill the
the the the young and they wouldn't kill
the old. they would go they would go for
the strongest members of the herd. Now,
when you do that,
>> you leave the young and the old
vulnerable to predators.
>> So, the next thing you know, the species
is wiped out because of your desire to
eat the strong ones. So, um so we're in
our our ancestors were so clever at how
they killed and ate animals and they
would fish. They would catch the fish.
Imagine surviving on ice flows, killing
seals and stuff like this. Uh uh I mean
think about and and then you we're doing
that's hard work doing all that stuff.
Now I visited the the Inowit population
uh or the the medical school that
services the Inuits in Thunder Bay,
Canada, which is their med medical
school there and they service the the
Inouits. I guess that they don't like
the term Eskimo. I guess that's a bad
term now. You can't use it. But they the
Inuit as they call there just people who
live in the Arctic Circle,
>> you know, now they're suffering from
type two diabetes massively cancer. all
of the chronic diseases uh because they
don't no longer have to run across ice
flow ice flows to kill a seal uh or go
out into a freezing cold kayak or boomac
go out and kill some animal on the they
get get us all delivered now to them and
they're massively unhealthy
>> but that's that's happened to our Native
American populations as well so um
clearly uh you can go back in the early
in the year 2000 uh 1900 the pueblo
injured some of these Native American
tribes they were thin jacked people and
now they're like suffering massively
from type 2 diabetes and in such a short
few generations just a couple of
generations you go from super health to
super uh unwellness.
So um sure it's all diet lifestyle
>> it's clear and uh once you realize that
uh then you know how to manage these
diseases and prevent them. I would say
prevention h it's like the guy who
smokes I'm not going to get lung cancer
I'll just I'll deal with it when I get
it. Uh right that's the but the other
thing nice about metabolic therapy yes
uh if you have cancer you can use it to
manage it and you can use a very similar
approach to prevent it this differs
dramatically from standards of care for
cancer today I don't see a line in Dana
Farber of a whole bunch of young people
lining up to get irdiated and poisoned
so that they won't get cancer in the
future right
>> point it doesn't make sense right but
they'll do that to you after you get
cancer this is what we're going to do to
you poison in a at you and and I was
saying, "Wow." But with metabolic
therapy, you can use the same strategy
to both prevent entry. So, um, so it's
really interesting, but it's going to
take knowledge. People have to come to
know this and, uh, it's going to take
time for them to come and they're going
to want to know. So, the change is going
to come from people. It's not going to
come from the top places.
>> That's why conversations like this are
are incredible. It's it's so important
to share.
>> Well, you know, I feel bad. I I I want
to apologize to all your listeners
because they hear me say all this stuff
and then they run down there to these
places and get slapped down. They feel
so bad. What is Seaff Freed saying? Oh
my god, he told me I didn't mind and I
went to talk to the head guy and he says
there's no evidence to support this.
>> Well, at least you're warning them
that's going to happen, right? Be be
aware that's that's
>> definitely more than likely it's that's
what's going to happen because these
guys feel that they know what they're
doing.
>> Correct. But again, we've got in the
conversation that we're having now, 70
people are dying somewhere in the
hospitals or at home from cancer,
>> right? So, uh clearly something's not
right here.
>> Yeah. You know, the thing you mentioned
earlier is I want to just expand upon
that. Uh how technology has advanced
faster than human physiology. We we are
hardwired the way that our ancestors
lived for such a long time. And when we
fast forward to the convenience of Uber
Eats and Door Dash and all the things
you have available, uh our our um
metabolism, like when we go in a fasted
state, even though we know consciously
we could walk to the refrigerator, open
it up and get food, even though we could
hit a button on our phone and have
somebody knock on our door with food in
30 minutes, we're still hardwired for
the old school. So even though we
understand this consciously, when we go
into this fasting state, we're still
hardwired the old way where all these
amazing things happen even with the
conscious awareness that there's food
out there. So I think that's super cool
that our body automatically goes into
that healing process even though there's
food available to us.
>> Well, that's the control, but you we we
know that it can get out of control
sometimes um when you have when some
people have anorexia or nervosa.
>> Yes. is the conscious uh ination because
the brain so the the animals uh that are
hardwired do not have a conscious
thought. So what they do they're hard
the animals are hardwired they they're
they're not going to be anorctic or any
of these kinds of things like humans
because millions of years of hard wiring
told us we have to eat. We we were
driven to eat. But yet with with
self-consciousness
you can override uh millions of years of
hard wiring and that can that can be
very disastrous uh for some people will
even die uh because they have this wrong
image of themselves. Uh they've
challenged their biochemistry. They
they've used conscious willpower to
override million millions of years of
evolutionary hard wiring in our brain.
the the animals, non non-human animals
um uh don't generally have to deal with
that. So um so but that but you're right
exactly what you said. We have a
conscious awareness that we that we know
the food is there but yet we're we're
not now our ancestors didn't have that
because the food was not there.
>> So they had to they had to track it down
and use a lot of energy uh to eat that
and get that food. So, and there were no
highly processed carbohydrates in in the
in the most of our existence as a
species on this planet. There was no
high
>> or seed oils, too.
>> Or seed oils. Yeah. I I don't know if
there were there I you know, we'd eat
anything we could find, but none of it
was cultivated or pro or processed or
any of this kind of thing. So, um you
know, I'm sure our ancestors would pig
out on on ripe berries during seasonal
opportunities. Who the bears do that? I
mean, um, but in general, everything was
kind of seasonal. Yeah, it it wasn't it
wasn't available all the time. And you
build festivals. You you build, uh,
things around the availability of these
things. When food was plentiful, you
could have a a festival of some sort,
you know, u tide or whatever they want
to call it. But but the idea is they
built these our cult our our our culture
builds around these opportunities to
have a lot of food. We still do uh
except today we have massive amounts
that that our ancestors never had
access.
>> Yeah.
>> If you're following a low carbohydrate
keto diet or carnivore diet, this is one
of the most important tips. I see a lot
of people who struggle with keto and
carnivore. And the reason they struggle
is because they are losing too many
electrolytes. They're becoming mineral
depleted. Every cell in your body needs
minerals to function, to produce energy,
which helps you burn fat and feel good.
My favorite minerals and electrolytes
are from beam minerals. These are fulvic
and humic compounds that are
bioavailable that have have over 70
minerals in them. It tastes like water.
They're carnivore friendly. Let me
explain why. There are no anti-nutrients
in them. It does not break a fast. As a
matter of fact, it could support your
fasting window. and it's been a gamecher
for my health and I recommend it to all
my students. Head over to
beamminerals.com.
Use the coupon code aadi at checkout. My
last name a di at checkout to get a nice
discount. be bamminerals.com coupon code
is aati.
And wi with this, you know, we're
talking about the mitochondria. We spoke
about ketosis, lowering blood sugar
levels, practicing fasting. Are there
any other routines and habits that you
would recommend to prevent chronic
disease? to prevent cancer. What are
some of your favorite ways to enhance
the mitochondria for prevention outside?
>> Well, I I think doing doing the opposite
of what I said in the beginning.
>> So, okay. So, let's let's talk about
that. So, moving your body, getting
steps, being physically active, that's
amazing for the mitochondria.
>> Like I always tell my students, always
take the stairs, not the elevator.
>> We have an elevator that we have a big
stairway here at the university and uh
you'll find more more students crammed
into the elevator than want to walk up
the stairs.
>> Believe that. Right.
Oh, they'll do it when you I I I they
say, "Oh, well, when I get old like you,
maybe maybe we'll do some of that." I
say, "You're going to be obese with type
two diabetes. You won't be doing that."
>> Right. Exactly.
>> You know, so um but you know, the a lot
of the young people, they're they seem
to start to understand this. Um but
yeah, but but a lot of them are under
stress. That's a new thing in our
society. I I think it's coming from all
this um this uh Tik Toks and social
media, whatever the hell else they look
at, all this stuff on the phone, they
get all freaked out when they when they
read something. Um yeah, so what else?
Uh poor sleep, you know. We we're in a
lot of stress. Uh our our we understand
things. We're not just, you know,
walking through life. We understand
there's a lot of things that freak us
out, these stressful things. And uh
sometimes you run to comfort food, which
is highly processed to remove. And a lot
of folks that are living paycheck to
paycheck can't afford some of the foods
that are that uh would would make them
healthy. And they're food deserts. And I
mean, we're causing a lot of our own
problems uh essentially. So uh um and
it's like escalating.
Are you passionate about the
groundbreaking and heroic research of
Dr. Thomas Ciphford on metabolic therapy
and cancer? So are we. That's why we've
created something special for you in
collaboration with Johnny Rocker Meyer,
a German book publisher and translator.
Introducing our collection of
meticulously crafted books that distill
the essence of Dr. Safe Reed's work.
Dive into the science and discoveries.
These summary books are your gateway to
understanding the intricate world of
metabolic ketogenic therapy in a clear,
concise, and engaging way. Whether
you're new to the subject or a seasoned
enthusiast, our books offer insights
that can change your life. Ready to
explore this transformative knowledge?
Visit our website at www.cancer as a
metabolic disease.com to get your copy.
You can buy the ebook there directly and
the paperbook via the provided links.
Here's the best part. A portion of every
purchase goes directly to support Dr.
Thomas Safereaded's groundbreaking
research. That's why the direct ebook
purchase is the best option to donate as
much as possible. You can see all of the
donations Mr. Rocker has already made at
www. ketoforcancer.net.
That's right. When you buy our books,
you're not just investing in your own
knowledge, you're also contributing to
the future of cancer research. help us
make a difference. Together, we can
drive change and save lives.
>> And a lot of the the folks that are
lower economic status suffering also
from cancer brutally uh which is which
is kind of an immoral uh thing. This
this should not have to happen. And the
other thing that we're that we realize
is that people always look at the
adverse effects of phys physical adverse
effects of the treatments of cancer. But
but we published a big paper on
financial toxicity. The the uh cost of
taking these poisonous chemicals and
radiation and surgical cutting uh the
charges to the poor people uh even if
you have a a a co-pay or whatever. I
mean, you get hit with a $20,000 bill,
uh, and you're working paycheck to
paycheck. Uh, we found marriages fall
apart. Uh, people commit suicide. Uh,
and the the it's past. This is immoral
behavior. This is all immoral. Um,
people, they should care about this.
See, one of the things that at at Boston
College, this is a Jesuit university.
The the the the philosophy of service to
others is is primary here. You have to
think of the of what you're doing and
how it could help somebody, not trying
to exploit them. I'm not saying nobody
should make a dollar. Listen, we all we
all need to make money from from how we
how we live. But man, what we're doing
to some of these folks with cancer is
just absolutely immoral. And uh uh it
has to change because we we just can't
live as a society uh doing this. And
it's a it's a world epidemic now. It's
not just the United States. You're
seeing cancer out of control in a lot of
countries. As soon as that western diet
and lifestyle comes into the program,
you're going to have to be aware that as
t as tasty and and great as this is, it
can turn on you and kill you in many
different ways.
>> Yeah. Can can you share the role of
insulin and what insulin does to create
growth in the body? I know glucose and
insulin, they go hand in hand, but I'd
love for you to share a little bit more
about the relationship with insulin and
growth. Well, you know, uh, insulin is a
very powerful hormone. Uh, we need it
to, you know, push sugar into the cells
and and if we don't burn the sugar right
away, we store it in atapost tissues.
But, you know, we measured insulin in in
animals that were we put them on
different on different diets and let
them eat as much as they can and then we
calorie restrict it uh to get them all
at the baseline. And and you can see
what happens to insulin even when you
eat um a ketogenic diet in high high
concentrations. You you people say oh
fat diet. Yeah. Uh we found insulin
insensitivity in ketogenic diets that
were given ad libidum
uh which means the the animal got fat
eating fat. That's not usually what
happens uh because most people we h we
have a hormone called choleiccytoinine
which is an appetite suppressant. So
when the b when humans now this was the
my when humans eat a lot of fat we lose
our appetite um the problem the problem
here with insulin is that we have
highfat high carb diets. Yeah.
>> This is the worst thing.
>> Yeah.
>> So the the body interestingly enough uh
doesn't doesn't excrete glucose. Gluc we
have a kidney that really refilters
glucose back into our body. Only when
you have diabetes and things like this
do you start excreting glucose in the
urine. But fat, if you don't burn fat
right away, you can excrete it. We
actually looked at the fecal pellets of
the mouse and we fed the the ketogenic
diet and did a full lipid analysis of
what they're eating. So we did all the
biochemistry of the lipids and then we
took the fecal pellets from these guys
and we ran them next to it. Looks like
what one go in one end out the other.
>> That's cool.
>> It was very very it was very
interesting. So they're they're not but
that's why we give ketogenic diets in
restricted amounts because you want the
fat that's taken into the body to be
burned and utilized.
>> You don't want it to cause insulin but
if you take so much of it it's like
anything you take too much of it it's
unhealthy.
>> Yeah.
>> So uh uh we did fish oil diets, we did
ketogenic diets, we did high carb diets
and every when you bring it down to
calorierest restricted all the diets
became very similar with respect to
their blood. We published this paper in
nutrition and metabolism. So uh people
can go and look at it you fish oil diet,
ketogenic diets, high carb diets and
then we we get them ad liabin calorie
restricted and boy at calorie
restriction just everything became
planer planer across the diets. So it
was very very interesting. So um and
that's why for cancer when the patients
are given food it's it's a a very low
exceedingly low uh carbohydrate diet. So
um so we're not starving these people.
They're just eating a very low carboh
small amounts of low carbohydrate and
then jump into water fasting. So if you
if you eat a high carb diet fat and
carbs and on one day and say I'm going
to go water only fast the next day, it's
like jumping off the side of a building,
>> right? But if you walk down the steps
and then take jump off the last step, it
ain't so bad.
>> A good analogy.
>> Yeah. So, so what we do is allow the
body over a a 10 to 14 to 20 day period
to get into a new state of existence and
then say when I jump to water only
fasting, wow, it's not much different
than what I was doing already.
>> So, it's a and then you get your low GKI
and then the blood work starts to really
clear up uh all of these things that
were out of whack, the triglycerides,
the cholesterols and all these different
lipids. Oh my god, this guy's getting
back into a into the healthy zone. The
cancer cells are getting hammered. And
then you come in with the glutamine
targeting drugs that we're working on
right now. And uh so we're taking the
human body and we're just bringing it
back to where it should have been. And
then we go in and we start battling with
the the glutamine thing. So um that just
you know that just they just those poor
tumor. So I sometimes you feel bad for
them. They're getting hammered so bad
trying to survive and the normal cells
of the body. Yeah. You're not so happy
but the normal cells of your body are
really doing well burning the ketones.
Your heart's getting better. You're
actually getting more power for each
heart pump. Your your brain is getting
more acute to look at things. You're
getting more focused. Everything in your
body is getting super healthy except the
tumor.
>> Yeah. That's amazing. That's incredible.
And the cells in the body that are the
most metabolically demanded demanding
that are most required for survival. The
brain, the eyes, the heart, like you
mentioned, those are the cells that have
the highest concentration of
mitochondria as well. And and that's
also interesting because neurons of the
brain and cardiac myioytes rarely ever
get cancer,
>> right?
>> Because as Auto Warberg said and as we
say um there's two steps to getting
cancer. One is the chronic disruption of
mitochondrial function and number two is
an upregulation of fermentation energy
from fermentation which is called
substrate level phosphorilation as
opposed to oxidative phosphorilation. So
you have to have a twostep process.
Chronic disruption of oxidative
phosphorilation coupled with a
protracted upregulation of a
fermentation which leads to disregulated
cell growth. Neurons and cardiac
myioytes can't can't sustain
fermentation metabolism for very long.
So they die. Uh and as Warberg said, you
can never get a cancer cell from a dead
a dead cell. So you that's why you
rarely if ever see uh tumors in cardiac
meioytes or in neurons of the brain. You
see them in gal cells of the brain and
sheets around muscles but you don't
usually find them in the cardiac uh
sometimes skeletal muscle as well. Uh uh
so so clearly you have to know the
biology of your body uh what they
evolved to do, how they did it, what
their fuels are, and what their
physiological functions are to know uh
how to manipulate your whole
physiological system against a group of
cells that are not playing by the rules
any longer. Um and uh we in our research
here, we get really excited uh when we
see animals that have these we call them
graveyard. My guy said if we didn't do
anything they'd be dead in a couple of
days. How we can actually restore these
guys back to almost normaly running
around. Yeah. So I said humans humans
actually do a hell of a hell of a lot
better than these than these poor mice.
You know they only have a two-year
lifespan anyway. But but but humans when
they do metabolic therapy everything
happens much more slowly. So you can
intervene all along the way. This poor
mouse man, you got to hit him right
away. Otherwise, his physi his don't
forget people have to realize the basil
metabolic rate of a mouse and a human is
hugely different,
>> right?
>> What's your heart rate? It's about what?
60. What is it? 60 50.
>> My resting heart rate's around like 44.
>> 45. That's good. Low low. Okay. You know
what? Okay. 44. You're healthy guy. 40.
It's very good. Very. You must be very
athletic.
>> Yes.
>> So, so what's the resting heartbeat of a
mouse?
Uh
115.
>> How about 650?
>> Oh my gosh.
A lot faster.
>> Yeah. If your head would blow off your
body.
>> Seriously.
>> Yeah. Right. So, think about this. You
got to know the physiology of the
systems you're working on to make an
appropriate translational uh move to the
clinic. So we're so excited when humans
do this water do the metabolic therapy
because it can h we can move intervene
in so many different ways and push the
patient in one direction or not
depending how they're doing not worrying
about whether they're going to be dead
in two days like the mouse right so so
uh uh you know so so uh yeah we we
translate that's why you have to really
understand biology chemistry and
evolutionary biology to really make
these translational changes to the human
uh and boy I'll tell you once we start
doing this in an industrial
metabolic therapy. We're going to set up
clinics all around the world and people
will come in and they come in, you know,
I got this I'm I'm I'm obese. I got
diabetes. I got pancreatic cancer, colon
cancer, breast cancer, something like
that. And then all of a sudden, we work
on this whole metabolic therapy and you
come out on the other end, you're no
longer obese, you don't have any
hypertension, no high blood pressure,
none of that stuff. And besides, what
happened to my cancer? you know, so uh
but it's not going to be easy because a
lot of the success rests on the shoulder
of the patient.
>> They have to be the ones that are
motivated to do this and if they're not
motivated, it's like anything. You ain't
you're not going to get the uh the
outcome that you might uh predicted.
>> Yeah. Do you really plan on setting up
clinics like that?
>> Oh yeah, that's the future. That's the
future. It's got to be unless people
want to continue to be irradiated.
Important. Now, the the other thing
because we'll never we'll never tell
anybody not to have that, right?
>> You know, if that's what they really
want uh and feel important that they
would go down there and have but but
we're not throwing out radiation and
chemo. uh as a matter of fact when the
patient is in nutritional ketosis those
kinds of parts of the standard of care
can actually be very very therapeutic
but you're using much much lower dosages
of these things so you don't have to
hair fall I every time I see a
bald-headed cancer patient I think that
poor person was treated by somebody who
has no clue what the nature of the
disease is you're trying to kill cancer
cells they're not hiding in your hair
follicles why your hair falling out
you're trying to kill a tumor cell why
your gums are bleeding and your your
your microbiome is blown to hell.
Everybody, oh, the microbiome is so
important. Unless you're a cancer
patient, they don't seem to care about
it. So, so metabolic therapy preserves
your hair, your gums, your microbiome.
You and you're just targeting the tumor
cells and getting rid of them and you're
making the rest of the body healthy. The
problem is what I'm saying is not common
knowledge,
>> right?
>> They're not in the trenches like we are.
They're not looking at what Otto Warberg
did like we did. We actually followed
exactly why he made his mistakes, why he
was thrown under the bus when everybody
ran off chasing genes. Uh what were his
kernels of knowledge that he had that he
could share with us. So we took what he
knew and we improved it and we showed
where others where he Warberg himself
and others have made very similar kinds
of mistakes thinking that oxygen
consumption is always linked to
oxidative phosphorilation. In a tumor
cell, it's not. And people need to know
that. So, uh, the quantification that
Warberg did based on his dramatic
training, uh, was not correct. So, we
had to clear up a lot of that mess. So,
and now the the science is solid. So, if
people want to challenge it, let them do
the same experiments and see see if they
get something different. So, um, but I
don't think they will if they do it the
right way.
>> Yeah. Well said. No, your research has
been incredible. we've really taken his
Otto Warberg's work and and extended it
and helping to achieve to reach more
people. Uh your book cancer as a
metabolic disease I admit when I read it
um few years ago it was a very difficult
read for me and I had to read it a few
times and I started to get it. Uh really
incredible book uh that you have out
there. Do you plan on writing a new
book?
>> Well, you know, they've been asking me
because right now it's selling more like
like more than it's ever sold.
>> That's awesome.
>> Yeah. You know, I'm shocked myself. Um,
but I want to emphasize that I only
wrote one book, uh, and all these others
that are coming around with my name on
it as if I wrote it. It's not true.
>> Is that happening?
>> Yeah. Yeah. We have pirates out there
taking our stuff.
>> Um, you know, not that they not that
they're putting wrong information out
there, but but like the charity channel
and all these things. Um, we our
research is driven by philanthropy and
private foundations. Okay. uh we get
money from people who who want to
participate in the paradigm change to
say uh my help we help this whole shift
uh and we just feel good about that.
Some people say I don't need to know
that my investment is going to bring me
back a greater uh return on my
investment. We just want to know that
we're participating in something
massively important for the health of
for the health and what I do like when
they make a a nice gift to us. Um, and
the next paper I write in the
acknowledgement section, you'll see the
name of that person. So, when you read
our papers, uh, open access, anybody can
read them, you know, because I can't say
everything in just a conversation. You
got to look at the data and read the
words that we wrote. Um, you see the
names. Who the hell are all these
people? like this guy here, this name of
this guy and those are the guys that
have supported our research.
>> That's cool. That's great that you do
that.
>> So, so, uh, yeah. So, if you want to
feel good and you get your name on a a
scientific publication in the
acknowledgements, so you say, "My god,
look at all these different names that
he's got in here." And then we have a
few foundations, of course. And don't
forget, and then NIH supported our
research years ago. um when I was doing
things that had no real clinical
practical application, pure basic
science, they would support that. But as
soon as you start stepping out of the
the trough into the into the big world,
wof you got to be real careful when you
say cancer is not a genetic disease. You
know, you don't you're not going to last
long.
>> I'm sure you've taken some heat for
that.
>> Well, you know, in they can say what
they want to say. I I really I I rest my
my case on the science, you know. I I'm
not the opinions that I have are all
based on the experiments that I did next
door repeated over and over again,
>> you know. So, you'll hear people say,
"Oh, his work hasn't been repeated." Are
you kidding me? Why don't you read the
damn article? How many times repeated
those things and all all the other
people that did the work, the nuclear
transfer experiments, what they did 70
times, and each one of these kinds of
tumors got the same results. Give me a
break.
>> This has all been repeated over and over
again. Over and over again. And oh well
if if it's important I would have heard
about it. Well maybe not.
>> Apparently not.
>> Apparently not. Where can my audience go
to find your research? Maybe donate and
and contribute to the cause.
>> Yeah. Well, I think um uh we get direct
uh in my in my bio biology web page at
Boston College in the biology department
there's a donation button. uh and the
university. Uh I cannot accept money
when I if someone gives me a check like
I got a check for $10,000 one time. Can
you believe this? So I mailed it to
Travis Kristofferson's foundation uh for
metabolic cancer therapies and Travis
Kristofferson's foundation supports us.
So that I give the money if I get money
I give it to the to Travis's foundation
because we have a a a grant set up from
his foundation to Boston College.
>> Got it.
>> So it's the university who gives the
money to me, never me directly getting
money from anybody. And that's another
thing. It comes through legitimate
channels from from the university
itself. So they can either donate to me
through my biology web page or through
Travis Kristofferson's. And we do write
grants to private foundations. We got a
t a very significant amount of money
from the United Kingdom childhood cancer
program. That's great.
>> And we got one of the few grants from an
American getting a grant from the
British.
>> But we developed now a therapy for
childhood high-grade glomomas that were
getting ready to put out in a big way.
Wow. Which is another tragic tragic
situation. But we developed a a
pediatric high-grade gloma uh
experimental system using uh mice that
have high-grade glomomas and we put them
in in the brains of very young mice and
got the same kind of phenotype that you
see in children with high-grade
glomomas. Spinal cord involvement which
kills a lot of little kids and we were
able to use our our our diet drug
cocktail metabolic therapy to really get
tremendous extension of survival of
these mice. So clearly this is going to
have a major impact in the clinic. But
the problem the problem is they don't do
that. It's not part of the standard of
care. Standard of care says surgical
debulking radiation and chemo. It's not
metabolic therapy. So even when you have
this that could save the lives of these
little kids. It's not being it's not
being used which is a tragedy, you know,
but we're going to continue to do it
because it's going to work and kids are
going to survive and live longer with a
higher quality of life.
>> Right on. Oh, right on. So good. We're
going to put everything that you
mentioned, those resources in the notes
down below for anybody watching and
listening. Last thing I want to ask you
here, Professor Se. I always end my
conversations with with gratitude. I I
call it vitamin G, my favorite vitamin
in the world. Vitamin gratitude. Um the
state of of of gratefulness, what it
does to lower your cortisol levels,
increase dopamine, oxytocin, just helps
you feel good. I want to ask you, what
do you have vitamin G gratitude for
today, Professor Seaf Freed? Well, today
I mean I'm speaking to you, aren't I?
>> Yes, you are.
>> All right. So, um, no, no, we we we I
enjoy what I do. I teach the students
and I have two big classes, the cancer
general, general biology to a 100
students and then we have the metab
cancer as a metabolic disease. So, kids
are getting all fired up about it. Um,
they want to hear more about it. We're
there's a lot of people emailing me,
young people from different
universities. They want to know more.
They want to get involved in the
movement. It's a movement. Uh it's a
knowledge movement. It's a health
movement basically. So, um because these
young people know, you know, they're
they're worried about climate change.
They see the obesity epidemic. They see
people getting sick and they don't want
to be part of that.
>> So, they want to make the change. Young
people have to jump on board here. Yeah.
>> Because the go the rest of us, you know,
we're going to be dissipated here after
a while. But, uh but but anyway. Yeah.
and and they want to stay as healthy as
they possibly can for a variety of
reasons. But you're right about the
gratitude and that's one of the things
that happiness and enjoyment of life
will reduce stress,
>> you know, and we all have our ways to to
reduce stress. Uh I like to go out
fishing on the lake when there's I don't
listen to any cell phones. I'm not I
don't have earplugs. I don't do any of
that.
>> Disconnected. Well, I just like to be
back in nature
>> and listen to the birds and all the
animals that and everything that's out
there.
>> So, um it brings you back and it's very
soothing actually. Um you're out there
in a whole lake all by yourself, you
know, and it's just quite And then you
come back in the lab and you kill
tumors.
>> What a contrast.
>> But it's a lot of fun doing that as
well.
>> Yes. You're Well, your work is
incredible. I've I've learned so much
from you over the years. It's been an
honor. I'm so glad we finally made this
happen. As I mentioned to you earlier,
>> well, you know, I I I know parts of my
book can be challenging as you said, but
I you have to write to the scientists as
well. Um because the scientists uh the a
lot of that information in the book was
coming from the research that we did
here next door in my lab. So uh we did
the controlled experiments, we did all
that and I understand some parts of it
like are over the head of people but
there are chapters in the book that
anybody can read.
>> Yeah.
>> Um uh so it's kind of it's a hodgepodge
of things. I did the best I could in
ordering this in the way I thought it
should have been ordered. Um but it was
the first shot. It's the only major book
written on cancer is a metabolic
disease. Um and uh you know it's the I I
don't know maybe others are trying to do
it but but uh I'm still battling with
the with the cancer field itself uh
thinking that cancer cells uh uh use
fatty acids for energy that um oxygen
consumption is linked to oxidative
phosphorilation. This is not not correct
completely.
>> So we we still have a lot of convincing
to do of people that call themselves
metabolic gurus of cancer. But but they
I'm telling you they're so yolked at the
neck because they know they if they say
cancer is not a genetic disease that
noose becomes a lot tighter.
>> So they have to walk this fine line.
>> I don't have to worry about that. I I
don't I'm not worried about losing uh a
multi-million dollar grant from the
National Cancer Institute. I don't have
a multi-million dollar grant from the
National I don't You can't lose
something you don't have.
>> The only thing I have is scientific
truth. That's the only thing I have
>> respect
>> and so so we'll keep pushing ahead and
hopefully the change will come for those
poor souls that are dying from this
disease.